
**NOTICE:** This repository is for viewing purposes only, and all of the data in the data folder has been removed. It is a public version of a repository that I created to analyze gas and electricity usage and spending data as an Applied Data Fellow in Cook County's Bureau of Asset Management. The Python scripts contained in this repository will not run properly, due to the fact that the sensitive data has been removed.

**PURPOSE:** The goal of this project was to create an interactive Dash dashboard showing, through both tables and charts, the energy usage and spending patterns of Cook County over the last three years.

**FILE DESCRIPTIONS:** You can find detailed descriptions of each file in the header comment at the top of that file. There are also comments throughout the code that explain the purposes of the functions, classes, and variables that are defined. The main.py file executes the program and launches the dashboard. The functions.py file contains the functions that are used to clean the Excel files and create the dataframes that will be used as the basis for the charts and tables of the dashboard. In the src folder there is also a components folder that houses more folders with files that render the charts and the tables, the dropdowns that allow the user to specify what data (gas or electricity, usage or spending, and by property or office) should be displayed, and, finally, the layout of the dashboard.

**DESCRIPTION OF DASHBOARD:** The resulting dashboard has two tabs that the user is able to switch between: the main tab and the averages tab. On the main tab, four dropdowns are rendered that give the user the ability to select whether to depict gas or electricity data, then usage or spending data, whether the data should be grouped by properties or offices (offices are numbered collections of properties), and which of these properties or offices should be included. Based on these selections, a chart and a table depicting three years of the selected data are rendered. On the averages tab, the user is able to select an office or property and a set of months from two dropdowns. When this is done, two tables with four columns each will be shown on the tab. The first shows the electricity usage, electricity spending, gas usage, and gas spending associated with the selected office for each of the months selected. The second table shows the mean of each of these columns.

**AUTHOR:** Matheu Boucher
